Updates Validator Setup (#1379)
maticnetwork/matic-docs: docs/maintain/validate/bloxroute.md

---
id: bloxroute

> title: BloXroute instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: BloXroute Instructions
```

> sidebar: BloXroute instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar: BloXroute Instructions
```

> description: Connect your nodes to BloXroute’s gateways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Connect your Polygon network nodes to BloXroute gateways using BDN.
```

keywords:
  - docs
  - matic
  - polygon
  - bloXroute
  - BDN
image: https://wiki.polygon.technology/img/polygon-wiki.png
---

> As validators, we need to keep track of block propagation time, given that we offer a 2 sec block time. We are happy to announce that we are working with [bloXroute](https://bloxroute.com/), whose infrastructure (the BDN) would help lower the propagation time. For this, we would need your support in connecting your nodes to bloXroute’s gateways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As validators, we need to keep track of block propagation time, given that we offer a 2 sec block time. We are working with [bloXroute](https://bloxroute.com/) to leverage their infrastructure ([the BDN](https://docs.bloxroute.com/bdn-architecture)), that would help lower the block propagation time. For this, we would need your support in connecting your Polygon network nodes to bloXroute’s gateways.
```

:::info

> To get your bloXroute endpoints please ping the validator support team on Discord.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get your bloXroute endpoints, please ping the **Validator Support team** on Discord.
```

:::

You will be able to add this gateway as a static (trusted) peer/node on your sentry node. If you are having any apprehensions about divulging the enode and region of your sentry node, you can rest assured that this information will be only shared with the bloXroute team and will be safe with them.

> ## Steps to connect to the Blockchain Distribution Network (BDN), provided by bloXroute 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connecting to the BDN
```

> **Step 1**: Create an account at bloXroute user portal and subscribe to the Introductory Plan (free of charge).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 1**: Create an account at the **bloXroute user portal** and subscribe to the Introductory Plan (free of charge).
```

> **Step 2**: Contact the Validator Support Team for the Bloxroute endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 2**: Contact the Validator Support Team for the bloXroute endpoint.
```

**Step 3**: Once bloXroute team creates a trusted peer specifically for your node, you will receive the hosted gateway information (enode public key). To add this enode as a trusted peer in your sentry node, follow these steps:

> Add the following content to /var/lib/bor/config.toml:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following content to `/var/lib/bor/config.toml`:
```

[Node.P2P]
TrustedNodes = ["enode://<node_id_of_gateway_provided_by_bloxroute>"]

[Node.P2P]
StaticNodes = ["enode://static_node_enode1@ip:port", "enode://static_node_enode2@ip:port", ... ]
TrustedNodes = ["enode://<enode_id_of_gateway_provided_by_bloxroute>"]

> Now restart bor: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now restart Bor: 
```

```bash
sudo service bor restart
```

> **Step 4**: Inform the Polygon team on the Discord channel ``#mainnet-validator-queries`` once you are done adding the trusted peer. bloXroute will activate the hosted gateway and confirm the success of the connection within the next 24 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 4**: Inform the Polygon team on the Discord channel **#mainnet-validator-queries** once you are done adding the trusted peer. bloXroute will activate the hosted gateway and confirm the success of the connection within the next 24 hours.
```
